You mentioned your father. What have you learned from your dad?
You mentioned he was an important.
Part of your childhood. Yeah, my dad is amazing. I grew up,
we didn't have a lot of money,
but it doesn't mean if I'm born in a nice country.
That always nice thing happened. Mm-hmm <affirmative>, you know, um,
my dad for me is, is a big role model because I see him through,
through my life facing a lot of adversity, you know, he, um,
he stopped drinking when I was a teenager,
he was an alcoholic and I've seen him struggle through that, you know,
and it was very, very hard. And, um,
I've seen him work.
<affirmative> like crazy hours. Like,
come leave in the morning, come home at night,
burned out because of work to almost all his life,
to the point that it became a slave of the system.
Yes. It became an ABI and a normal way of living.
And it make me realize that I've learned a lot through my father.
He taught me perseverance hard work. You know, when you face adversity,
you know, to never give up until you achieve it. But also it,
it taught me a, a lesson that
in a way that I don't want to be like him, even if he is happy
it's because I realize, I don't think he knows anything else.
Like he works through all his life and I don't want to live
to work. I wanna work for, for, you know what I mean?
I wanna decide when I work, you know, I feel like, like he, he, he,
he lived to work instead of working for a living and perhaps
it's because he did not have choice. He, he was the older of his family.
They had, they were nine kid. His dad, my grandfather died when he was young.
So he had to become the father of the family and,
and work to put money on the table.
So perhaps that what made him that way, and it became like,
like an AB for him. My dad taught me, uh,
when I was at school, I, I was bullied at school.
He's the first one who initiate me to martial art. He taught me Chira. My dad,
my dad was a black belt in Chi CA as well, very nice.
But because he was working too much, you didn't have time to teach me.
And I needed self defense in order to defend myself.
I have a winning, a great cover in mixed martial art, but in, uh,
in the schoolyard, uh, <laugh>, that's so good. My, my, my mixed record, my, my,
my, my, my record is not very good.
<laugh> when you're a kid and you're about
seven, eight years old, and you're facing bullied bullies that are
two to three years older than, than yourself.
It's not the same thing than when you're 25 and the guy is 28.
So there was a big discrepancy in terms of, uh, maturity.
So my dad taught me, introduced me to karate. Then he,
I didn't, he didn't have time to teach me. Then he put me in a,
with a teacher that it was Jean KUER and
I grew up with a lot of anger. And, uh,
there were two person that was afraid growing up was my dad.
My dad was very severe, very strict with me, and I'm glad he was because I,
I could have become very bad. I could have become chosen and a different path.
People see me as a nice guy. And I'm, I am a nice guy.
I try to be a good role model,
but I could easily have turned towards around.
There's darkness, somewhere in there.
Yes, they are a lot. A lot of my friend have choose that, that path. And,
you know, they, they, they are, they, they are, uh, they're not with me today,
even if I'm from Canada and Canada seems like the nicest country in the world.
Like I said, it's even if you live in the nice country, not always nice thing,
depend of the situation, but that's what my dad taught me, you know? And he,
he gave me that to, to, because I,
I, I'm very good at learning by observing people. And by observing him, I,
I see the, the struggle he had with a alcoholism and, and what he did, the, the,
the pain sometimes that he inflict to, to, to us, to my family,
but how he turn,
he did that 180 degree, and I really admire that.
And I know it was, uh, very, very hard for him and he did it, you know, and, uh,
for me, uh, that's a great, uh, role model for me.
So with your dad being an engine of basically hard work and you finding
a balance of be being able to work your off,
but also to be able to enjoy a piece of chocolate,
what does a perfect day in the life of George San Pierre look like?
So like, if you were to go through a day, that's very productive,
but also one makes you sit back and enjoy and say, that was a good day.
What's that look like? What are we talking about? When do you wake up?
What do you eat? What do you do?
It changed over the years when I was younger, I have a, a good day.
It was like a good training session or, or, you know,
achieving good thing in my training, you know?
And that's why I was very good at it because when I, I was obsessed, you know,
I think to be good at something, you, you need to become obsessed. And to me,
perfor, performing in my training was everything. You know,
like when I had a bad training session, I didn't tell my training partner.
I was acting like a, like, because of the, my ego. I didn't, you know,
I didn't tell nobody. I was like, Hey, then I go in the locker room. I'm like,
man, then, then I'm playing the, the, the,
the training in my mind, you know, I'm saying, okay,
I should have done this shouldn. I done. And it hunt me. It hunt me, man.
It's a training.
And it hunt me until the next training session when I can redeem
myself.
That's how it is when we used to train in,
in altogether, back in the day in Canada,
we had David Zo. We had Patrick cut.
We had, uh, Dennis gang. Uh, Steve
is all like the,
the best guy in Canada that we're training with each other before we were
training in different gyms. But once a week,
I made it in a way I contact everybody that we all joined for and we exchanged
ideas and we trained with each other. So a friendly, I would say,
friendly competition. It was not mall mal, but it was hard training. You know,
like not our goal is, was to improve, you know, but it wasn't very competitive.
And when that day you used to get out of the training session with a bad
performance. For me,
you used to hunt me until the following week when I could give it back and,
and perform better with guy that had the most trouble with that's,
how it was. And that's how you get better, you know, but,
but it was not a, a training where it, it, it was,
what're trying to do malicious thing to one another. You know what I mean?
You need to be playful, but playful,
but competitive that when had a good training session because of spur was on a
Friday, I had the best weekend and what I was going out with, my friend,
drinking and partying and having fun that, that was, that was my, my,
my, uh, my ideal day back in the day
today is change. You know, my, my, my, my life has changed, you know, like, um,
I, I am not the same person I used to be when I go,
went on my knees and begged the UFC for title shut. You know what I mean? I,
I am, uh, I'm wealthy, I'm healthy.
Most importantly, that's the most important thing. And as
man, I'm gonna tell you the truth, as good as my career was I man,
my private life man, is a million time better, man.
I, I, and, and people ask me sometimes they always wonder they,
they try to ask me and it's normal. It's a lot of people is curious. And the,
the reporter
and in the sport of mixed martial art, we say,
we play basketball. We play soccer, but you don't play fighting.
So when you expose your private life,
we seen that happen in the fight with sometime con McGregor.
And KIB your competitor knows that he cannot get to use
what he will do. He will try to get to someone that you love. So me,
I never expose my, my private life.
I never post Instagram of my family of my stuff.
That's the reason why, because I'm in a, and I'm,
I'm in a business of fighting and people know that they cannot get to
me. And I believe
because I was bullied when I was young,
I didn't realize that when I was young,
but it helps me deal with the mental warfare that I need,
that I had to face right on in my life and mix martial art,
because it's a very egotistic sport. And there's a lot of, a lot of,
a lot of intimidation. And I was used to,
I I've been used to this thing when I was young. So it does not get to me,
however, the good way to get to me, go, go,
go, go, try to get to someone. I, I, I love now, man, I'm gonna go go.
You know what I mean? And I'm aware of that. So in order to protect myself,
I always, because I'm aware I'm, I'm a public person.
So I try to always keep my surrounding, like in a private.
Yeah. One of the ways that, uh, like, uh, your, your friend of mine,
Joe Rogan has been and an inspiration that he he's got like an
incredible family. And he, for the most part, it started to change recently.
Actually, it's kind of interesting, but for the most part throughout his life,
he kept it pretty secret. Mm-hmm, <affirmative>,
doesn't talk about it in his com he's a comedian comedians talk about
everything. He doesn't really talk about it. And there's something to that.
It like preserves the magic of this, this silence of the private life. And.
I think it can affect the, the development of the kid.
If the kid grow up being, oh,
he is the son of that guy, instead of being his own person,
you know what I mean? So, so for me, it's very important. Like,
my parents are older, it's fine.
<affirmative> but it taught me a big lesson when I'm with my friend at a dinner
or anything, I talk with person, always share a thing. But when I'm talking,
I I'm aware of, of the audience when I'm in the front.
Yeah. And I mean, but oftentimes those people are just incredible.
It kind of makes me sad that, uh, you know,
there's a lot of people that love you, you. Right?
And there are a lot of really incredible people and you'll never get to really
know their story. That's right. I mean, I don't know, for me, it makes me sad.
You see them like at airports and stuff,
people will tell me they listen to this podcast or something like that.
And they're, I could tell they're incredible people and it makes me,
it's like a little goodbye of a, of a possible friend. I don't know it make,
it makes me sad. It, it makes me it's lonely.
It's almost like celebrity is a lonely thing. So the higher the celebrity,
the more lonely you become in some kind of way.
But of course you have that little gem of a private life where you can.
Personally, I believe every relationship I, I like,
I don't like to use this term, but it's always a give and take relationship.
You know? Like you can gain something and the person like it,
it could be something like not material materialistic,
like something always a good conf like someone that they can give me good
advice. Or, or it's a word I would say like extensional,
like if a pilot,
as a cot is the cot is extend as a extensional relationship with
him, you know? So he knows if he gets sick or he faint, he's there to make sure,
you know, he he's there to help you. I think in everywhere,
it's about compatibility,
but it's about extensity right in a way that if that person is
extensional and sometimes we talk about, about love. You know, like sometimes I,
I think is, is it, is it a BS word or not? Because I, myself sometimes look at,
I look at myself in the mirror and when I do was stupid thing,
sometime I love myself a lot. And sometime I don't, you know what I mean?
Cuz I'm angry at myself. I've done stupid thing.
So that means sometime you could love could be fluctuating.
You know what I mean? How about in relationships? Sometimes you people,
they say, oh they love each other. But then when they divorce, they go,
oh I want the house and the dog and the kids stay with me.
And you know what I mean? If you love, if by definition,
if you really love someone
and let's say you're an old man and you love a woman and she decide to leave you
for a younger man, if you really love her,
you gonna help her pack and leave. But then nurse say sometimes we, we,
we want to hone.
Something to me, love includes the missing somebody,
the losing somebody, the anger at somebody,
it's all the passion feelings towards somebody. That's all love. Like I,
you know, it's all part of the thing. It's the ups and downs. It's uh,
the sad things. When the feelings to its a person, the ups and downs go away.
The forgetting. Yeah. That's, that's the opposite of love.
So the opposite of love. Isn't hate the, to me,
the opposite of love is forgetting and, and that's, that's a much bigger,
that's the depth of human connection. That's.
How I see love.
So sometime I try to stay's and I've been ask how
I try to, because I have the image of someone who's positive,
but I go through my own demon as well. Sometime. However,
we talk about love when I was young,
you know like, like I didn't love who I was at first.
That's how I love. I learned to kind of love myself. You like I didn't,
I didn't, when I was going through bullying, I was,
I believe I was bullied because I didn't love myself. I, I, I,
because I project a very bad image of what I think of
myself. I was a kid that lacked a lot of confidence.
I was looking down when I was walking, I shrugged my shoulder.
When someone was talking to me, I was avoiding eye contact.
So I was a very easy target for bullies.
And I think bullies are like in predatory, in, in nature,
they will hunt the, the easier pray. They don't,
they don't go the reliant don't go for the, the alpha bull.
They go for the one who's hold or who's sick.
The weakest one and bullies are the same in society, I believe.
And I didn't like to be bullied of course, but I didn't like the,
the person that I was, but I found out to martial art,
the respect and my,
my coach was extraordinary to me. He taught me discipline and self,
self strength. And I found out that I needed to, in order to love myself,
I needed to change myself because I didn't. When I looked at myself in the, my,
I didn't like what I saw.
So I decided to become like someone that I would
love.
So I tried to look people straight up and,
and trying to
showcase a more confident image that I had.
And it was hard in the beginning because I didn't really believe in it, but I,
I fake it until kind of, I make it.
So when I was walking at school more and more,
I was learning how to become more confident. And I was like taking charge. The,
the teacher was asking question. I was at first, I was never answering.
I was like this waiting always to be the last I was, Hey, I, I,
I know what the answer, this is the answer I got out of my, um,
comfort zone, so to speak.
And I wish I would tell you that I got out of bullying
because a Hollywood story, I, I used martial art to beat up all the bullies,
but it's not how it happened to me.
It happened because I changed myself from the inside out.
And I learn how to,
because I didn't love myself in the beginning.
I learned how to become like someone that I have love.
And even now like, I'm by no mean perfect. I do a lot of stupid thing,
but I, I learn as a person and even I do as something stupid, I'm like, shoot,
I did something stupid. I, I,
at least I can apologize to the person if I realize,
and then I know that I'm not the person I was in the past.
I'm the person that I am right now.
So I can learn and become that image of the person that I love.
So in, in a way, the reason why I'm trying to be positive and I,
and I'm able to stay positive sometime in life is because I'm always
trying to be like that person that I love. Yeah.
And I think if you don't look yourself in the mirror and don't love yourself,
or don't see any positive future for yourself,
how can you change your environment? If you cannot change yourself?
You know what I mean? You would never be happy if you're not happy.
When you look at yourself in the mirror, so change yourself first,
then change your, you know,
it's not the environment that gonna change for yourself. It it's,
you have to go from the inside out. You know,
this, this, I learned to martial art. I have a, had a coach who was incredible,
used to drill these, these ideas in my head and, and give me confidence.
You know, like, like this, telling me all these,
these beautiful things about myself of an hour, he's dead now,
unfortunately, a piece piece to him. But, uh, he was incredible, incredible.
He was very, very strict. I was afraid of him.
I was afraid of my dad and afraid of him. He couldn't teach nowadays.
Like he used to teach me because he would be in probably in jail, you know,
<laugh> but I'm glad he did it because for that time being,
that's what I needed it. And I would never have had that,
that career I had in mixed martial art without this, because I would,
I would never have got out of my comfort zone. Would've been impossible.
And in order to improve in life, you need to get out of your comfort zone.
It's hard. It's very hard to do and.
And strive to be the person that you love. I, I that's, that's,
that's beautifully put George.